Add blog post about Godot XR Community developments in 2024 (#951)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_article/godot-xr-community-nov-2024.md

This game has you find constellations in the night sky by holding up a picture of the constellation and aligning it with the relevant stars.
Excellent haptic feedback lets you know when you've gotten close, and successfully aligning the constellation lights it up.

The #3 spot went to [Summer Pottery VR](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2830121) with 3.938 points.
This game lets you do some clay pottery sculpting.
It's a great and very well-executed use of physically interacting with the clay to shape and paint your creation.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0IxvWaj8iUo?si=em-D99NacStXyIYA" title="5 VR Games Made in Godot To Inspire You" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Again, many of the other entries were of great quality and we highly recommend [checking them out](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/entries).

### Godot XR Game Jam #3

> The 3rd game jam which will be held in the week starting 10 February 2025. [You can read all about it and sign up here](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-feb-2025).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 3rd game jam will be held in the week starting 10 February 2025. [You can read all about it and sign up here](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-feb-2025).
```

## Universal Godot VR plugin

Inspired by the Universal Unreal Engine VR Mod, community member TeddyBear082 has created a mod to inject VR capabilities into existing 3D games made with Godot.

TeddyBear082 previously made a name for himself with the excellent VR port of the popular game Cruelty Squad and has used the knowledge gained with that and similar projects to create a more universal mod.

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Hb9BDcCZHCY?si=Zr2Jw3MV7cY00yEE" title="
> 
> 
> 0:03 / 2:01
> 
> UGVR Demo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer 2: Probably this `<iframe>` isn't meant to be split across so many lines like that? I'm guessing this is intended to be:

```suggestion
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Hb9BDcCZHCY?si=Zr2Jw3MV7cY00yEE" title="UGVR Demo" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>
```

Author: Oops, that was a copy paste mistake :)

---
title: "Godot XR community - November 2024"

> excerpt: "Interesting projects from the Godot XR Community."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: "Interesting projects from the Godot XR community."
```

categories: ["news"]
author: Bastiaan Olij
image: /storage/blog/covers/november-2024-xr-community-update.webp
image_caption_description: "tbd"
date: 2024-11-01 12:00:00
---

> Godot has a very active XR focussed community that mainly help eachother out through the XR channel of the official Godot Discord Server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Godot has a very active XR-focused community that mainly help each other out through the XR channel of the official Godot Discord Server.
```

> Godot has a very active XR-focused community that mainly help each other out through the XR channel of the official Godot Discord Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Godot has a very active XR-focused community that mainly help each other out through the XR channel of the [official Godot Discord server](/community/).
```
(I considered linking directly to the discord.gg link, but thought that might get stale.)

> Today we want to put a spotlight on a number of community projects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Today, we want to put a spotlight on a number of community projects.
```

## Godot XR Community Game Jams

To showcase the engine capabilities and the ingenuity of the Godot XR community, game jams are now being organized twice a year.
For participants, it is a fun way to get introduced to Godot's XR capabilities.

### Godot XR Game Jam #1

The [first game jam](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam) was held from December 1st until December 4th 2023.
The theme of this game jam was Vapor.
We saw both many new faces and long time community members join this first jam, with a total of 17 entries.

The #1 spot went to [Cloud Shepherd](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2402526) which won 3 out of 6 categories.
This entry let you herd sheep on clouds in the sky. With a very unique movement mechanic and using a fan to create

> a breeze with which to move the sheep around, this was a very unique entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This entry let you herd sheep on clouds in the sky. With a unique movement mechanic and using a fan to create
a breeze with which to move the sheep around, this was a fascinating entry.
```
The pedant in me says that something is either unique or is not unique, there are no graduations! Also, to avoid the repetition of "unique" again (and also, all entries are unique anyway!) I changed to "fascinating". I haven't actually played the game so "fascinating" may not be the best word - please edit as appropriate!

The #2 spot went to [Super Steam Hands](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2402404) which won 2 out of 6 categories.
Don't let the thumbnail of this entry fool you. A great entry where you're using jets of steam to parkour around a level,

> feel like ironman in this very fun entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't let the thumbnail of this entry fool you. A great game where you can feel like Iron Man by using jets of steam to parkour around a level.
```

> The #3 spot when to [Pipe stream](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2400974) which won 1 out of 6 categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The #3 spot went to [Pipe Stream](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2400974) which won 1 out of 6 categories.
```

A great little puzzle game where you need to chip away a path for vapour to reach a target. Very challenging!

*Create a video for these entries, or each separate entry and embed here?*

There were far more great entries so be sure to check out the jam page for more!

### Godot XR Game Jam #2

> The [second game jam](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024) was held from the 8th of July till the 15th of July 2024.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [second game jam](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024) was held from the 8th of July until the 15th of July 2024.
```

We decided to give participants a full week to complete their game.

> The theme this jam was Relaxation. There were a total of 26 entries and this time we scored them on medium points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The theme this jam was Relaxation. There were a total of 26 entries and this time we scored them on the average points in all categories.
```
I hope I've interpreted that correctly.

Author: I think so, it's even a little unclear to me how itch actually averages it.

> The #1 spot went to [Who's a good boy](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2821459) with 4042 points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The #1 spot went to [Who's a good boy](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2821459) with 4.042 points.
```

This cute little game has you play fetch with a dog in a park.

> This features some excelent interactions both from the player point of view, as well as the dog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This features some excellent interactions both from the player point of view, as well as the dog.
```

> The #2 spot went to [Constellation Coach VR](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2830514) with 3974 points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The #2 spot went to [Constellation Coach VR](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2830514) with 3.974 points.
```

This game has you find constellations in the night sky.
By holding up a picture of a constellation, excellent use of haptic feedback allows you to find the relevant stars.

> Successfully finding the right stars the constellation lights up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Successfully finding the right stars lights up the constellation.
```

> The #3 spot went to [Summer Pottery VR](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2830121) with 3938 points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The #3 spot went to [Summer Pottery VR](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2830121) with 3.938 points.
```

This game lets you do some clay pottery sculpting.

> Excelent use of physically interacting with the clay to shape and paint your creation, this is very well executed.

Reviewer 3: That's enough "excellent"s for today. 😛 

```suggestion
Great use of physically interacting with the clay to shape and paint your creation, this is very well executed.
```

*Here as well, do we embed videos for each entry, or embed StayAtHomeDevs video showing the first 5 entries? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0IxvWaj8iUo*

Again, many of the other entries were of great quality and we highly recommend checking them out.

### Godot XR Game Jam #3

We are still planning the 3rd game jam which will likely be held in the week of the 10th of February 2025. Stay tuned!

*Should see if we can get the page up in time and link to it*

> ## Universal Godot Virtual Reality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Universal Godot VR plugin
```

Inspired by the Universal Unreal Engine VR Mod, community member TeddyBear082 has created a mod to inject VR capabilities into existing 3D games made with Godot.

TeddyBear082 previously made a name for himself with the excellent VR port of the popular game Cruelty Squad and has used the knowledge gained with that and similar projects to create a more universal mod.

*Maybe embed https://vimeo.com/924331826 ?*

> You can find [the plugin here](https://github.com/teddybear082/UGVR).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the plugin [on teddybear082's GitHub](https://github.com/teddybear082/UGVR).
```

## Body tracking and motion capture plugins

Core contributor Malcolm Nixon has created various plugins for Godot that use the new body tracking feature to make tracking data available from various sources.

He has support for Rokoko, Axis Studio and Movella.
He also has a plugin for VMC (Virtual Motion Capture), which is a standard used by a number of motion capture systems.

*Should insert an image of this work?*

> You can find [his repositories here](https://github.com/Malcolmnixon?tab=repositories).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the plugins [on his GitHub](https://github.com/Malcolmnixon?tab=repositories).
```

## Meta platform plugin

Community member Decacis has released a few of his games on the Meta Horizon store and implemented part of the Meta platform SDK in support of this.
He has implemented support for things like in-app purchases, leaderboard, challenges, and much much more.

*Not sure if we could show something here seeing its mostly a background feature*

> The plugin he created is open source and can be found [here](https://github.com/decacis/godot_oculus_platform).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin he created is open source and can be found [on his GitHub](https://github.com/decacis/godot_oculus_platform).
```

## Godot XR Tools

> We've showcased XR Tools before but with version 4.4 of the plugin nearly ready for release it's worth quickly looking at whats coming.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We've showcased XR Tools before, but with version 4.4 of the plugin nearly ready for release, it's worth quickly looking at what's coming.
```

* Improved support for Godot 4.2+ features such as pass through logic with both OpenXR and WebXR.
* New objects to make games suitable for both VR and non-VR use.

> * A new gaze interaction component for controllerless experiences.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A new gaze interaction component for controller-less experiences.
```

---
title: "Godot XR community - November 2024"
excerpt: "Interesting projects from the Godot XR community."
categories: ["news"]
author: Bastiaan Olij
image: /storage/blog/covers/november-2024-xr-community-update.webp
image_caption_description: "tbd"
date: 2024-11-01 12:00:00
---

> Godot has a very active XR-focused community that mainly help each other out through the XR channel of the [official Godot Discord server](/community/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Godot has a very active XR-focused community on the XR channel of the [official Godot Discord server](/community/).
```

Today, we want to put a spotlight on a number of community projects.

## Godot XR community Game Jams

To showcase the engine capabilities and the ingenuity of the Godot XR community, game jams are now being organized twice a year.

> For participants, it is a fun way to get introduced to Godot's XR capabilities.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It's a fun way for participants to get introduced to Godot's XR capabilities.
```

### Godot XR Game Jam #1

> The [first game jam](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam) was held from December 1st until December 4th 2023.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The [first Godot XR Game Jam](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam) was held from 1 December until 4 December 2023.
```

Reviewer 4: Using British (or, not-US at least) date format for consistency

The theme of this game jam was Vapor.

> We saw both many new faces and long time community members join this first jam, with a total of 17 entries.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We saw both many new faces and long-time community members join, and had a total of 17 entries.
```

> The #1 spot went to [Cloud Shepherd](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2402526) which won 3 out of 6 categories.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The #1 spot went to [Cloud Shepherd](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2402526) which won 3 out of 6 categories, including "Originality", "User experience", and "Audio".
```

> This entry let you herd sheep on clouds in the sky. With a unique movement mechanic and using a fan to create

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In this entry, you herd sheep on clouds in the sky by using fans to create breezes that blow the sheep to their destinations.
```

> a breeze with which to move the sheep around, this was a fascinating entry.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> The #2 spot went to [Super Steam Hands](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2402404) which won 2 out of 6 categories.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The #2 spot was taken by [Super Steam Hands](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2402404) which won 2 out of 6 categories ("Fun factor" and "Theme incorporation").
```

> Don't let the thumbnail of this entry fool you. A great game where you can feel like Iron Man by using jets of steam to parkour around a level.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Don't let the thumbnail of this entry fool you. It's a great game where you can feel like Iron Man by using jets of steam to parkour around a level.
```

> The #3 spot went to [Pipe Stream](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2400974) which won 1 out of 6 categories.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The #3 spot went to [Pipe Stream](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/rate/2400974) which ranked the best in the "Haptics" category.
```

> A great little puzzle game where you need to chip away a path for vapour to reach a target. Very challenging!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It's a great little puzzle game where you need to chip away a path for vapour to reach a target. Very challenging!
```

Reviewer: I notice it says "vapour" in this sentence, but "Vapor" above. I don't know which we should use but probably should be consistent.

Author: Seeing the announced theme was "Vapor", we should probably stick with that.

*Create a video for these entries, or each separate entry and embed here?*

> There were far more great entries so be sure to check out the jam page for more!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There were far more great entries, so be sure to [check out the jam page for more](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam/entries)!
```

### Godot XR Game Jam #2

> The [second game jam](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024) was held from the 8th of July until the 15th of July 2024.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The [second Godot XR Game Jam](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024) was held from 8 July until 15 July 2024.
```

We decided to give participants a full week to complete their game.
The theme this jam was Relaxation. There were a total of 26 entries and this time we scored them on the average points in all categories.

The #1 spot went to [Who's a good boy](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2821459) with 4.042 points.
This cute little game has you play fetch with a dog in a park.

> This features some excellent interactions both from the player point of view, as well as the dog.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It features some excellent interactions both from the player's and dog's points of view.
```

The #2 spot went to [Constellation Coach VR](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2830514) with 3.974 points.

> This game has you find constellations in the night sky.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This game has you find constellations in the night sky by holding up a picture of the constellation and aligning it with the relevant stars.
```

> By holding up a picture of a constellation, excellent use of haptic feedback allows you to find the relevant stars.

Reviewer 4: Excellent haptic feedback lets you know when you've gotten close, and successfully aligning the constellation lights it up.

> Successfully finding the right stars lights up the constellation.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

The #3 spot went to [Summer Pottery VR](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/rate/2830121) with 3.938 points.
This game lets you do some clay pottery sculpting.

> Great use of physically interacting with the clay to shape and paint your creation, this is very well executed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It's a great and very well-executed use of physically interacting with the clay to shape and paint your creation.
```

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0IxvWaj8iUo?si=em-D99NacStXyIYA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer: I'm no expert on YouTube embedding or on accessibility, but the `title="YouTube video player"` stood out to me there. Would it be better (more accessible) if it was the title of the video?

Author: I just copy pasted that from the share feature on YouTube. Not even sure where its used.

Author: Changed the titles to what the video title is.

> Again, many of the other entries were of great quality and we highly recommend checking them out.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Again, many of the other entries were of great quality and we highly recommend [checking them out](https://itch.io/jam/godot-xr-game-jam-july-2024/entries).
```

### Godot XR Game Jam #3

We are still planning the 3rd game jam which will likely be held in the week of the 10th of February 2025. Stay tuned!

*Should see if we can get the page up in time and link to it*

## Universal Godot VR plugin

Inspired by the Universal Unreal Engine VR Mod, community member TeddyBear082 has created a mod to inject VR capabilities into existing 3D games made with Godot.

TeddyBear082 previously made a name for himself with the excellent VR port of the popular game Cruelty Squad and has used the knowledge gained with that and similar projects to create a more universal mod.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Hb9BDcCZHCY?si=Zr2Jw3MV7cY00yEE" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> You can find the plugin [on teddybear082's GitHub](https://github.com/teddybear082/UGVR).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can find the plugin [on teddybear082's GitHub profile](https://github.com/teddybear082/UGVR).
```

## Body tracking and motion capture plugins

Core contributor Malcolm Nixon has created various plugins for Godot that use the new body tracking feature to make tracking data available from various sources.

He has support for Rokoko, Axis Studio and Movella.
He also has a plugin for VMC (Virtual Motion Capture), which is a standard used by a number of motion capture systems.

*Should insert an image of this work?*

> You can find the plugins [on his GitHub](https://github.com/Malcolmnixon?tab=repositories).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can find the plugins [on his GitHub profile](https://github.com/Malcolmnixon?tab=repositories).
```

## Meta platform plugin

> Community member Decacis has released a few of his games on the Meta Horizon store and implemented part of the Meta platform SDK in support of this.

Reviewer 4: Could be nice to link some of Decacis's games on the Meta Horizon Store here?

Author: Would be nice, wonder what the best way of doing that is without it going too commercial.

Reviewer 2: I think it'd be fine to link to the store pages directly - we link to Steam pages on most of the release notes posts in order to credit the screenshots. Personally, I think linking to a Quest store page is basically the same as linking to a Steam store page.

Here's two links so you don't have to dig them up:

- https://www.meta.com/experiences/5816419461787331/
- https://www.meta.com/experiences/5030396847007781/

Should probably ask Decasis for permission first, though?

Reviewer: Or just link his username to https://decacis.com/ ?

He has implemented support for things like in-app purchases, leaderboard, challenges, and much much more.

*Not sure if we could show something here seeing its mostly a background feature*

> The plugin he created is open source and can be found [on his GitHub](https://github.com/decacis/godot_oculus_platform).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The plugin he created is open source and can be found [on his GitHub profile](https://github.com/decacis/godot_oculus_platform).
```

## Godot XR Tools

We've showcased XR Tools before, but with version 4.4 of the plugin nearly ready for release, it's worth quickly looking at what's coming.

* Improved support for Godot 4.2+ features such as pass through logic with both OpenXR and WebXR.
* New objects to make games suitable for both VR and non-VR use.
* A new gaze interaction component for controller-less experiences.
* Various improvements to snap points.
* Improvements to hands interacting with physics.

*Possibly link to the GodotCon talk Fredia and David did with a timecode to when XR tools comes up?*

*Possibly add info of alternative toolkits?*

## Godot ARCore support

ARCore support in Godot has been a long time coming.

> From an early working prototype in Godot 3, to moving this into a community maintained plugin, there have been plenty of hurdles along the way. Thanks to the persistance of Patrick Exner, Luca Junge and Chambefort Maxime we have nearly reached the finish line.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
From an early working prototype in Godot 3, to moving this into a community maintained plugin, there have been plenty of hurdles along the way. Thanks to the persistance of Patrick Exner, Luca Junge, and Chambefort Maxime, we have nearly reached the finish line.
```

> Supporting changes were recently merged into the master branch of Godot and you can find the plugin itself [on the plugins GitHub](https://github.com/GodotVR/godot_arcore).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Supporting changes were recently merged into the master branch of Godot and you can find the plugin itself [on the plugin's GitHub](https://github.com/GodotVR/godot_arcore).
```
